      Also Pavel is the only Belarusian who got top prizes at the most prestigious
international guitar competitions, such as:

 2016 – The L F. Tarrega International guitar competition (Benicassim,
Spain) – 2nd prize, Audience Choice Award and prize for the best
interpretation music of F. Tarrega;
 2016 – The XXXIV International Concert Artist Competition (Denver, the
USA) – 3rd prize;
 2014 – The XXX A. Segovia International guitar competition (Almunecar,
Spain) – 2nd prize;
 2014 – The XLVIII F. Tarrega International guitar competition (Benicassim,
Spain) – 2nd prize and Audience Choice Award;
 2012 – The XLV M. Pittaluga International guitar competition (Alessandria,
Italy) – 3rd prize;
The year 2015 is marked by a great event in Pavel’s career: he won one of the
most prestigious international guitar competitions in Heinsberg (Germany). It gave
him an opportunity to play some concerts in Europe and Asia. He also recorded his
solo CD at Naxos – the world&#39;s leading classical music label from Canada. This is

the second CD of the musician. The first one was recorded in Nordhorn (Germany)
at P&amp;C Samsong Productions 2012.
As a special guest, member of the jury and with master-classes Pavel Kukhta took
part in different festivals, which were held in different countries, such as: Austria,
Belarus, China, Czech Republic, Germany, Greece, Israel, Hungary, Lithuania,
Poland, Russia, the Slovak Republic and Switzerland. He also played concerts at
many prestigious concerts halls, such as: the Belarusian State Philharmonic Society
(Minsk, Belarus), the Moscow International House of Music (Moscow, Russia), St.
Petersburg State Capella (St. Petersburg, Russia), the National Philharmonic of
Ukraine (Kiev, Ukraine), the Shanghai Conservatory of Music (Shanghai, China)
and others.
Besides, Pavel cooperates with such collectives as: the Chamber ensemble
“Ensemble Perosi” (Turin, Italy), “Valencia Orchestra” (Valencia, Spain),
“Orquesta Lírica De Castelló” (Castellon, Spain), Orquesta de la Universidad de
Granada – OUGR - (Granada, Spain), the Chamber orchestra “Arco” (Moscow,
Russia), the Kaliningrad Symphony orchestra (Kaliningrad, Russia), the Chamber
orchestra “New Music” (Kazan, Russia), the Kaluga Youth Symphony Orchestra
(Kaluga, Russia), the National Symphony Orchestra of Ukraine (Kiev, Ukraine),
the Zielona Góra Philharmonic Orchestra (Zielona Góra, Poland), State Chamber
Orchestra of the Republic of Belarus (Minsk, Belarus), Belarusian Radio and
Television Orchestra (Minsk, Belarus), the Musical Capella “Sonorus” (Minsk,
Belarus), the Ensemble of soloists «Classic-Avantgarde» (Minsk, Belarus), Minsk
String Quartet (Minsk, Belarus), the Symphony Orchestra of the Grodno Capella
(Grodno, Belarus), the Symphony Orchestra of Brest Academic Drama Theatre
(Brest, Belarus) and others.
A significant aspect of Pavel’s creative work is his collaboration with the
renowned Belarusian composer Galina Gorelova. Together, they have created
several pieces for solo guitar and ensemble:
 2014 – Sad Ghosts of Vanished Castles, a suite for the Belarusian dulcimer
and guitar;
 2015 – Preludio and Fuga (dedicated to Pavel Kukhta);
 2017 – Charon, Concertino for guitar and strings;
 2018 – Rodin (dedicated to Pavel Kukhta);
 2019 – Biblical Motifs (second edition);
 2023 – Distant Bells (dedicated to Pavel Kukhta);
 2024 – Bruegel-Suite (dedicated to Pavel Kukhta);
 2024 – Da Lantano for guitar and strings;

At Pavel’s initiative, join concerts with outstanding guitarists of our time were held
at the Belarusian State Philharmonic: Roland Dyens (France), Aniello Desiderio
(Italy), Anabel Montesinos and Marco Tamayo (Spain-Cube) and others.
In 2013 on the stage of the Big Hall of the Belarusian State Philharmonic Society
there took place a concert, where Pavel performed together with a legendary guitar
player and composer Roland Dyens. All the evening the listeners had an
opportunity to hear the music, written by the author, which included original
compositions, jazz arrangements and improvisations. Some time later the composer
dedicated to Pavel one of his new compositions, called «Blue Montuno».
In 2021, the Big Hall of the Belarusian State Philharmonic hosted the premiere of
the Sonata for Guitar and Harpsichord by the distinguished Russian composer
Nikita Koshkin. Although the four-part Sonata was written in 2011, it wasn’t
performed until 10 years later. After the successful premiere, Nikita Koshkin
dedicated the piece to the performers, Pavel Kukhta and Marina Romeyko.
Pavel is a Savarez artist.
At present Pavel Kukhta is a soloist of the Belarusian State Philharmonic Society
and he teaches in the Belarusian State Academy of Music.

